So we you can now go to 03-JSX for
the milestone if you've fallen behind and
you didn't wanna copy all that ES lint
profile so feel free to go copy that.
And we are gonna get into, Hooks,
I want you to create a new file here and
we're gonna call it SearchParams.jsx.
We're actually gonna start getting
into really building our application.
So just to kind of set
your expectation here,
we're gonna build an application where you
can search an API for animals to adopt.
It's a fake API that's hosted
by Frontend Masters, so
it's one that we can control and
make sure that it doesn't ever go down.
But eventually I'm gonna
show you at the end,
if you wanna go hook it
up to like a real API.
And actually look at real pets to adopt,
you can use the pet finder
API to do just that.
So, let's make a component here,
we're gonna call it SearchParams.
And it's gonna be a function,
we're gonna have a location.
Feel free to put wherever
you want in this location.
This is all very United States centric,
so apologies for that but
that's just the API that we have.
So I'm gonna put Seattle, WA,
but feel free to put Minneapolis,
Minnesota, or Chicago, Illinois, or
whatever you want there, up to you.
And then under that we're going to return.
I put parentheses here so
I can go down to the next line.
If you put parenthesis here and
just go to the next line,
it's going to think that the line
has ended like that, right?
And it's not gonna do
anything underneath that.
So you need parentheses to tell
JavaScript, I'm going to the next line.
That's where the parentheses comes from.
Okay, and then I wanna give it a class,
like a CSS class, right?
There's a kind of a weird
restriction here in JavaScript.
Class is a reserved word in JavaScript,
right?
So if I say class Thing, right,
that's what class means here.
So I can't just call this class.
So you need to call it className.
To be totally fair,
they didn't make this up, it's actually
the name of the JavaScript API for it.
Just to prove my point here,
if I say inspect here,
x =$0.
So now I have this span here,
right, the span right there.
What if I wanted to get
the className out of that?
Well, if I do x., className,
that'll actually give me back
the name of the class from it.
So that's where the class name comes from.
It comes from the name
of the JavaScript API.
Some people get really upset by that,
I'm just used to it.
So Stockholm Syndrome, I suppose.
Okay, search-params, And
then we're gonna give it a form, and
then we're gonna give it a label,
I'm gonna give one to give it a label for
something, right?
Again, for is a reserved word,
right, for for loops,
you can get rid of class thing here,
by the way.
So what do we have to call it instead
of for it It's called htmlFor.
So I think those are the two primary ones
that you're gonna run into issues with,
everything else, for
the most part, just works.
So htmlFor "Location", Inside of that,
we're gonna give it a location.
As in the word location, and
then we're getting input of id=,
"Location" value="location" placeholder=
"location" location, location, location.
Okay, under that we'll give it a button.
There'll be a submit button for
the whole form.
Okay, and then export default,
SearchParams.
So, let's talk about
a couple of things here.
One, this is wrong and
broken and I know and
I'm gonna show you why
here in just a second.
So we have this variable here called
location this could be anywhere that
you're searching for a pet, right?
You wanna limit it down to
Salt Lake City to find your your pet or
something like that.
So I have this variable here that holds
the location of where I wanna search for.
I want that to be the value
of this input here.
So what's the difference between putting
curly braces here and putting quotes here.
If I have the value here as quotes,
this is literally going to put this
string in there of location, right?
But I don't want it to be
literally the string location,
I want it to be whatever is
inside the variable location.
That is what the curly braces do here.
If you put curly braces you're saying,
hey, here's a JavaScript expression right?
So this JavaScript expression
is just location but
this could be like location.twoUpperCase
or something like that right?
An expression it's anything that can be
on the right side of an equal sign right?
So anything that can be on the right
side of this can go in here, right?
So .toLowerCase, right, or
something like that, right?
Anything that's a valid JavaScript
expression can go here.
For now, I just want the variable.
So that's that.
And then now, I wanna use this in App.jsx.
So pop over to App.jsx.
You can delete the pet import and just
import SearchParams, from SearchParams.
Another fun trick I'll just
show you really quick.
So if I'm here in App.jsx, let's just
say I didn't import this up here.
You can actually just start writing
the thing that you wanna import.
So I'm gonna put SearchParams, right this.
Notice I don't have it
imported at the top.
If I just click on this, notice that it
just automatically goes like okay, well,
you're trying to import that, right?
And that works, okay.
Okay and
now I had this SearchParams component
being rendered here from SearchParams.
Okay, now if I go over here,
go back to my Adopt Me,
I'll make sure your server is running.
I don't think mine is npm run dev tf.
There we go, refresh.
What do we got here?
Yeah, that is something
that we did not fix.
App.jsx create route from
react-dom/client, I believe, right?
You need to import create route from
react-dom/client, which is client side
browser side, right, cuz there's also
server side rendering stuff here.
So they separate them into
different packages, okay?
And then here in app, you have to have a
return here, or else if nothing's getting
returned, it's just getting declared and
never used, just so that's what we fixed.
So refresh here.
You will have an error in your console,
that's okay,
we'll take care of it momentarily.
But let's talk for
a second about our input here.
How does React work?
How does React know when to re render?
Because basically with the way that this
component works here in SearchParams.jsx
is that, it'll continually
re-render this a bunch of times.
These render functions get run a lot,
which means that they
need to be fairly fast.
Every time when an event happens in
JavaScript it re-renders everything,
top to bottom.
So, you have to ask yourself,
if I start typing in this input and
I press the button, and
a top level dump event happens and
React says cool, the user did something,
something probably changed let
me re-render my self, yeah?
So if I type on this input and I,
let's say I type the letter R,
right, so you would expect it
to say Seattle WAr, right?
If I typed it a lowercase r there,
well, what happens?
If I type in it a re-render cycle happens.
What is location?
>> Seattle, Washington.
>> Seattle, Washington with no r, right?
Because nothing's changing this right?
So if I go back over here and
I'm typing in I am literally hitting
the letter r right now,
nothing is happening.
Because, nothing ever changes location.
So no matter what, I keep typing in here,
nothing is happening because
the event is happening and
React is re-rendering itself and
nothing is updating that location.
That's a problem, right,
we have successfully broken the browser.
So we need to be a bit more explicit
about this controlled input, right?
You can see here it's saying, hey,
you provided a value prop
without an on change.
So actually React is kind of
ahead of you here and it's,
I know you broke this so
you should go fix this.
So let's make something
that can actually change.
We need something called a hook.
So I'm gonna say up here
I'm going to import
a thing called a hook from React.
So I'm gonna import, use state from React.
And I'm gonna say const Location and
setLocation =useState and
then whatever you want
the default state to be.
So that that can be Seattle,
WA or whatever you want.
For now, let's just do that and
see what happens.
And so now I have this thing called
Location which is coming in from Seattle,
Washington.
All I need to tell it what to do whenever
something changes on this input.
So I'm gonna say onChange, And
I'm gonna give it a function.
So it's gonna take in an event and
then it's going to setLocation
to be e.target, target.value.
This setLocation function is
what you call, To let it know,
hey something changed go update yourself.
Okay, so now if we go back over
here it successfully updates,
we successfully unbroke it.
Now, I'm gonna set this to be empty string
cuz by default I don't wanna search in
Seattle, I wanna search everywhere, right?
So now if I go back over here,
by default it's empty, right?
So let's talk a little bit more
about these render functions.
These render functions are meant
to be totally stateless, right?
So if I have some sort of counter here,
this is a terrible idea, so
don't do this in production
that counter= 0.
And every time this runs
I say counter++ and
then we'll just output
an H2 here of the counter.
Right, this render function is
getting called so many times.
Every time obviously I'm clicking on it,
will click a Submit, I don't know,
other stuff, right?
So these kinds of they're
called side effects, right?
If we're using the dumb functional
programming computer science stuff,
you're not allowed to have side effects
inside of your render functions, right?
So, your render functions need to be fast
and they need to be stateless, right?
When I say stateless, it means that
they're not modifying global and
being stateless.
This counter here is an exact counter
example to what I'm telling you,
right, don't do stuff like this.
And given that.
Cool, so the way that you have
state inside of a function,
is you use these hooks.
So these hooks are then passed into React
and then React gives them back to you.
So that's what this location is it gives
you some piece of state that you're
allowed to keep track of
internally to a React application.
In this case,
we're keeping track of the location,
which can change, depending on how
the user updates their form, yeah?
And then you can add as many pieces of
these like hooks states inside of your
application.
Couple of rules about hooks,
they have to be called every
single time in the same order.
Which is to say, don't do things
like if thing you can't do this.
You can't have conditional
creation of hooks,
they have to be created every
single time in the same order.
Cuz the way that React is
keeping track this is,
this component calls these
pieces of state in this order.
So if you're putting ifs or for
loops or things like that in there,
you might be calling them out of order,
and
therefore you might get your
state back out of order, right?
So don't do that.